Hello wonderful person this is Anton and today we're going to be discussing one of the bigger
mysteries of cosmology that you can sort of see circled right here. This is referred to as the
cold spot. The unusually large and relatively cold area inside the so-called cosmic microwave
background that for the longest time now did not have a definitive explanation. And in this video
we're going to be talking about one of the potential and most likely resolutions to this mystery
or basically what exactly formed this particular spot and just generally talk about some of the
most unusual and most mysterious structures in the universe usually referred to as supervoids.
But I actually wanted to start right here with this image of what's known as the Buddhist void.
Mostly because back in the days this was one of the most requested videos that I never specifically
made on this topic for the reason I'm about to explain. And a lot of people were basically wondering
so what exactly is the Buddhist void, what is this mysterious great nothing that it's usually
referred to as and what is forming these unusually large but empty structures. And one of the reasons
I never specifically made a video about Buddhist void is because well it's just one of many many
voids. And as a matter of fact it's not the largest or the closest to us. The closest one is known as
the local void and there is a video about this somewhere up there. But how exactly do these
structures form and what actually happens inside of them. And I guess the other question is where
are some of the larger ones. Well in general their formation is directly connected to the
formation of the cosmic web that essentially sort of spreads across the entire universe and usually
has the galaxies connecting to one another. In essence the cosmic web itself sort of looks like
this and everything you see in the middle those are different galaxies and a lot of different
types of gas. But naturally in between the cosmic web and in between all of these galaxies and all
of this gas there are these voids or slightly emptier space that doesn't contain as much density,
doesn't contain as many galaxies and doesn't generally contain much of anything. There is
still some stuff there, there are even some galaxies there, just not as many as inside the
web itself. And a lot of these simulations made over the last few years using very super computers
like this one right here known as the illustrious project have generally been able to recreate
this cosmic web. Showing the scientists exactly how all of this forms but more importantly also
recreating a lot of these structures such as voids and supervoids just as we see them in the
real universe as well. And so in essence some of these empty spaces right here these are the voids
you see in this three-dimensional map of the nearby space. Oh and by the way just to give you
perspective here these are actually huge distances. Here it's about 700 million light-years away from
us and our galaxy is not even visible in this picture it's just a tiny tiny blob somewhere
right there. But why exactly are we talking about this? Well as you probably guessed by now the recent
study quite thoroughly investigates and more or less definitively proves that this cold spot right
here sort of represents one of the biggest voids out there that in essence answers a lot of questions
including the question I asked previously about the biggest supervoid out there and also the question
in regards to why exactly this particular cold spot even exists. Although okay let's actually
take a few steps back and briefly talk about the CMB. So naturally what you're looking at right here
is the left over radiation or the so-called relic radiation from the early universe. This is the
first light in the universe as it traveled across the universe for practically 13.8 billion years.
This light was originally created when the universe was just under 380 000 years old
and basically represents the first electromagnetic radiation that was created in the universe itself.
And by traveling for 13.8 billion years it eventually sort of redshifted into the current
frequencies and even though originally it was about 3000 Kelvin in temperature now it's down to
approximately 2.7 Kelvin so almost absolute zero temperatures. And so in essence this is the light
that's only visible in the microwave spectrum of radiation in the gigahertz frequencies just
above the radio waves. But as you can see from the map there is quite a lot of variation with
certain parts being specifically interesting because they seem to be a little bit cooler.
But the actual temperature difference here is very minute. It's about 7 micro Kelvin or about
0.00007 degrees Kelvin. But it is nevertheless a representation of some sort of a difference
or some sort of a structural formation that created this particular cold spot.
And here's actually what all this would look like in a nice case if you were to somehow see
all of this radiation. And since the original discovery of this cold spot a few years ago
there's been quite a lot of discussion about its potential origins. One of the more unusual
sort of explanations in this case involved multiple universes. In this case at least one scientist
made a somewhat controversial claim that it could maybe some sort of an imprint from another
universe that seems to be beyond our own. Something that happened before the cosmic inflation
early on in the creation or the formation of the universe. Now because it's somewhat difficult to
prove this and because the ideas here are basically extremely hypothetical it's practically impossible
to prove or disprove this. So a better way to actually analyze this is to see if we can come
up with a better explanation. If you are interested in this proposition though you can check out more
about this in the wiki in the description below. And so the much better and more widely accepted
explanation in the last few years was actually in regards to the previously mentioned voids.
In this particular case it's always been suggested that there was some kind of a supervoid here.
So large that it would make it probably the largest void we've discovered so far.
It's been always referred to as the Eridanus supervoid. And there are several physical theories
explaining how such a void would actually potentially create a cold spot inside the
microwave background radiation. And so this new study decided to see if they can prove the
existence of this void by using the data from the so-called dark energy survey. And specifically
they actually wanted to see if the observations from the Planck telescope that created the
microwave background map could be then matched with some of the other maps for example produced by
the dark energy survey. And this survey doesn't actually use microwave background radiation,
it uses entirely different observations. In this case it looks at various near ultraviolet
visible and near infrared observations and measures the expansion of the universe using
type 1 supernova, various large galactic clusters and various other effects including
gravitational winding effects produced by various events. And by using this survey in the past the
scientists have actually been able to create not just the map of the dark energy distribution
but also the map of dark matter which basically acts in the opposite way. And so some of the most
accurate dark matter maps we have so far have actually been produced by this particular survey.
Here's for example one of the most recent maps produced by the survey from 2021. And so by comparing
the maps from DES to the maps from CMB the scientists realized that they too seem to match.
In the process discovering that this particular region seems to have a lot less galaxies
than a lot of other regions nearby. Naturally also containing a lot less dark matter as well.
Fitting the definition of what you would call a void or in this case a super void. And according to
the scientists in this paper this would be a gigantic structure, empty structure. It would be
approximately 1.8 billion light years across and would be located approximately 2 billion light years
away from us. Which also means that it's probably the nearest such super void to us. Or as it's
referred to in the paper the nearest under density to earth. With the average density inside the void
being approximately 30% less than the density of mass and galaxies and so on around it. And so once
again it's not that it's empty space it's actually not empty at all. It just there's a lot less
stuff on the inside. Which is why it creates this cold spot visible right here. But at the same time
it also seems to be cigar shaped or sausage shaped and we're basically looking at it from I guess
this perspective right here. So we're sort of facing the tunnel in this case. And although this
does sort of explain everything once and for all it doesn't explain one thing. It doesn't explain
the origins or how such a huge structure was created. And mostly because at the moment all
of the models do not produce any such extremely large structures. It kind of suggests that either
there is something wrong with our current physical model of the universe. Or for some reason the
universe decided to produce this unusually anomalous object that's somewhat difficult to explain using
modern physics. Either way whatever the explanation is going to be in the next few years the paper
itself is very interesting. And the finding in this case almost definitively proves that a redanus
super void is basically the largest such formation close to us. And it's probably one of the biggest
super voids in the universe. And actually most likely even closer to us as well. It's also not
in this map right now mostly because this is a little bit outdated. But for now we don't really
know what's happening inside the void and how it was formed. Maybe there was more dark energy present
in this region and so the universe expanded a little bit faster. Or maybe there are some other
unexplained phenomena happening inside the void that's causing these effects. Either way though
it's definitely going to be really interesting to find out what the explanation for this is
in some of the future studies. For example one of the suggestions in the paper is that
maybe there's actually something going on with the slightly weaker gravitational
landing effect that's already been detected in the paper. Whatever it is the future will tell.
For now it's definitely a great confirmation and a great explanation to an old mystery.
Once we learn more there's going to be a video so make sure to subscribe share this with someone
who has learned about space and sciences and maybe come back tomorrow to learn something else.
Maybe support this channel patreon by joining each membership or by buying the wonderful
present t-shirt you can find in the description. Stay wonderful I'll see you tomorrow and as always
bye bye
you